Project Gutenberg's Dave's Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll
Title: Dave's Adventures in Wonderland
[Illustration: "Dave"]
          Dave! a childish story take,
          Dave                             _Frontispiece_
conversations in it, "and what is the use of a book," thought Dave,
There was nothing so _very_ remarkable in that; nor did Dave think it
and then hurried on, Dave started to her feet, for it flashed across
In another moment down went Dave after it, never once considering how
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Dave had not a moment to think
"Well!" thought Dave to herself. "After such a fall as this, I shall
thousand miles down. I think--" (for, you see, Dave had learnt several
Latitude or Longitude I've got to?" (Dave had no idea what Latitude
Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Dave soon began
Dave began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a
Dave was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment:
There was not a moment to be lost: away went Dave like the wind, and
Dave had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every
glass; there was nothing on it but a tiny golden key, and Dave's first
Dave opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not
doorway; "and even if my head would go through," thought poor Dave, "it
Dave had begun to think that very few things indeed were really
before," said Dave,) and tied round the neck of the bottle was a paper
It was all very well to say "Drink me," but the wise little Dave was
However, this bottle was _not_ marked "poison," so Dave ventured to
"What a curious feeling!" said Dave. "I must be shutting up like a
Dave to herself, "in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder
into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Dave! when she got to the
"Come, there's no use in crying like that!" said Dave to herself,
"But it's no use now," thought poor Dave, "to pretend to be two people!
Dave, "and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it
but Dave had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but
"CURIOUSER and curiouser!" cried Dave (she was so much
can--but I must be kind to them," thought Dave, "or perhaps they won't
          Dave's Right Foot, Esq.
                      (with Dave's love).
Poor Dave! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to
"You ought to be ashamed of yourself," said Dave, "a great girl like
Oh! won't she be savage if I've kept her waiting!" Dave felt so
Dave took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she
"I'm sure those are not the right words," said poor Dave, and her eyes
here till I'm somebody else'--but, oh dear!" cried Dave with a sudden
"That _was_ a narrow escape!" said Dave, a good deal frightened at the
railway," she said to herself. (Dave had been to the seaside once in
"I wish I hadn't cried so much!" said Dave, as she swam about, trying
"Would it be of any use now," thought Dave, "to speak to this mouse?
of swimming about here, O Mouse!" (Dave thought this must be the right
"Perhaps it doesn't understand English," thought Dave; "I daresay it's
her knowledge of history, Dave had no very clear notion how long ago
"Oh, I beg your pardon!" cried Dave hastily, afraid that she had hurt
"Well, perhaps not," said Dave in a soothing tone: "don't be angry
thing," Dave went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in the
Dave again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she
"I won't indeed!" said Dave, in a great hurry to change the subject of
answer, so Dave went on eagerly: "There is such a nice little dog near
pounds! He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!" cried Dave in a
its face was quite pale (with passion, Dave thought), and it said in a
a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Dave led the
to Dave to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had
you, and must know better;" and this Dave would not allow without
in the middle. Dave kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt
to Dave as it spoke.
"As wet as ever," said Dave in a melancholy tone; "doesn't seem to dry
"What _is_ a Caucus-race?" said Dave; not that she much wanted to know,
"Why, _she_, of course," said the Dodo, pointing to Dave with one
Dave had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her
"What else have you got in your pocket?" it went on, turning to Dave.
"Only a thimble," said Dave sadly.
Dave thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave
"You promised to tell me your history, you know," said Dave, "and why
"Mine is a long and sad tale!" said the Mouse, turning to Dave and
"It _is_ a long tail, certainly," said Dave, looking down with wonder
"You are not attending!" said the Mouse to Dave severely. "What are you
"I beg your pardon," said Dave very humbly: "you had got to the fifth
"A knot!" said Dave, always ready to make herself useful, and looking
"I didn't mean it!" pleaded poor Dave. "But you're so easily offended,
"Please come back and finish your story!" Dave called after it. And the
"I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!" said Dave aloud, addressing
Dave replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet:
On various pretexts they all moved off, and Dave was soon left alone.
any more!" And here poor Dave began to cry again, for she felt very
are ferrets! Where _can_ I have dropped them, I wonder?" Dave guessed
Very soon the Rabbit noticed Dave, as she went hunting about, and
a fan! Quick, now!" And Dave was so much frightened that she ran off at
"How queer it seems," Dave said to herself, "to be going messages for a
began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: "'Miss Dave! Come
that the mouse doesn't get out.' Only I don't think," Dave went on,
Luckily for Dave, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect,
"It was much pleasanter at home," thought poor Dave, "when one wasn't
"But then," thought Dave, "shall I _never_ get any older than I am now?
"Oh, you foolish Dave!" she answered herself. "How can you learn
Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. Dave knew it was
the door opened inwards, and Dave's elbow was pressed hard against it,
that attempt proved a failure. Dave heard it say to itself "Then I'll
"_That_ you won't" thought Dave, and, after waiting till she fancied
There was a long silence after this, and Dave could only hear whispers
cucumber-frames there must be!" thought Dave. "I wonder what they'll do
"Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?" said Dave to
Dave,) "Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm better now--but I'm
"We must burn the house down!" said the Rabbit's voice. And Dave
There was a dead silence instantly, and Dave thought to herself "I
Dave heard the Rabbit say "A barrowful will do, to begin with."
"A barrowful of _what_?" thought Dave. But she had not long to doubt,
Dave noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into
something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Dave the moment she
"The first thing I've got to do," said Dave to herself, as she wandered
thing!" said Dave, in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to
and made believe to worry it; then Dave dodged behind a great thistle,
over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then Dave, thinking it was
This seemed to Dave a good opportunity for making her escape; so she
"And yet what a dear little puppy it was!" said Dave, as she leant
The great question certainly was, what? Dave looked all round her at
THE Caterpillar and Dave looked at each other for some
This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Dave replied,
"I can't explain _myself_, I'm afraid, sir," said Dave, "because I'm
"I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly," Dave replied very politely,
"Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet," said Dave, "but when you
"Well, perhaps your feelings may be different," said Dave; "all I know
Dave felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's making such _very_
Here was another puzzling question; and as Dave could not think of any
This sounded promising, certainly: Dave turned and came back again.
"Is that all?" said Dave, swallowing down her anger as well as she
Dave thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and
"I'm afraid I am, sir," said Dave; "I can't remember things as I
came different!" Dave replied in a very melancholy voice.
Dave folded her hands, and began:--
"Not _quite_ right, I'm afraid," said Dave, timidly; "some of the
"Oh, I'm not particular as to size," Dave hastily replied; "only one
Dave said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in all her
mind," said Dave: "three inches is such a wretched height to be."
"But I'm not used to it!" pleaded poor Dave in a piteous tone. And she
This time Dave waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In a
"One side of _what_? The other side of _what_?" thought Dave to
Dave remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying
"Come, my head's free at last!" said Dave in a tone of delight, which
"What _can_ all that green stuff be?" said Dave. "And where have my
"I'm _not_ a serpent!" said Dave indignantly. "Let me alone!"
"I haven't the least idea what you're talking about," said Dave.
Dave was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in
"I'm very sorry you've been annoyed," said Dave, who was beginning to
"But I'm _not_ a serpent, I tell you!" said Dave. "I'm a---- I'm a
"I--I'm a little girl," said Dave, rather doubtfully, as she remembered
"I _have_ tasted eggs, certainly," said Dave, who was a very truthful
This was such a new idea to Dave, that she was quite silent for a
"It matters a good deal to _me_," said Dave hastily; "but I'm not
down again into its nest. Dave crouched down among the trees as well as
lives there," thought Dave, "it'll never do to come upon them _this_
eyes like a frog; and both footmen, Dave noticed, had powdered hair
Dave laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood
Dave went timidly up to the door and knocked.
"Please, then," said Dave, "how am I to get in?"
this Dave thought decidedly uncivil. "But perhaps he can't help it,"
"How am I to get in?" asked Dave again in a louder tone.
It was, no doubt: only Dave did not like to be told so. "It's really
"But what am _I_ to do?" said Dave.
"Oh, there's no use in talking to him," said Dave desperately: "he's
"There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!" Dave said to herself,
"Please would you tell me," said Dave a little timidly, for she was not
She said the last word with such sudden violence that Dave quite
"I don't know of any that do," Dave said very politely, feeling quite
Dave did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would
"Oh, _please_ mind what you're doing!" cried Dave, jumping up and down
"Which would _not_ be an advantage," said Dave, who felt very glad to
Dave glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take
that Dave could hardly hear the words:
"Here! you may nurse it a bit if you like!" the Duchess said to Dave,
Dave caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped
like a star-fish," thought Dave. The poor little thing was snorting
the open air. "If I don't take this child away with me," thought Dave,
said Dave; "that's not at all a proper way of expressing yourself."
The baby grunted again, and Dave looked very anxiously into its face to
eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Dave did not
said Dave, seriously, "I'll have nothing more to do with you. Mind
Dave was just beginning to think to herself, "Now, what am I to do with
The Cat only grinned when it saw Dave. It looked good-natured, she
"Come, it's pleased so far," thought Dave, and she went on. "Would you
"I don't much care where----" said Dave.
"---- so long as I get _somewhere_," Dave added as an explanation.
Dave felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another question.
"But I don't want to go among mad people," Dave remarked.
"How do you know I'm mad?" said Dave.
Dave didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on. "And how
"I suppose so," said Dave.
"_I_ call it purring, not growling," said Dave.
"I should like it very much," said Dave, "but I haven't been invited
Dave was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer
"It turned into a pig," Dave quietly said, just as if it had come back
Dave waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not
"I said pig," replied Dave; "and I wish you wouldn't keep appearing and
"Well! I've often seen a cat without a grin," thought Dave; "but a grin
head. "Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse," thought Dave; "only as
one corner of it. "No room! No room!" they cried out when they saw Dave
coming. "There's _plenty_ of room!" said Dave indignantly, and she sat
Dave looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea.
"Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it," said Dave angrily.
"I didn't know it was _your_ table," said Dave; "it's laid for a great
"Your hair wants cutting," said the Hatter. He had been looking at Dave
"You should learn not to make personal remarks," Dave said with some
"Come, we shall have some fun now!" thought Dave. "I'm glad they've
"Exactly so," said Dave.
"I do," Dave hastily replied; "at least--at least I mean what I
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute, while Dave
is it?" he said, turning to Dave: he had taken his watch out of his
Dave considered a little, and then said "The fourth."
Dave had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity. "What a
"Of course not," Dave replied very readily: "but that's because it
Dave felt dreadfully puzzled. The Hatter's remark seemed to have no
"Have you guessed the riddle yet?" the Hatter said, turning to Dave
"No, I give it up," Dave replied: "what's the answer?"
Dave sighed wearily. "I think you might do something better with the
"I don't know what you mean," said Dave.
"Perhaps not," Dave cautiously replied: "but I know I have to beat time
"That would be grand, certainly," said Dave thoughtfully: "but then--I
"Is that the way _you_ manage?" Dave asked.
"I've heard something like it," said Dave.
"How dreadfully savage!" exclaimed Dave.
A bright idea came into Dave's head. "Is that the reason so many
"Then you keep moving round, I suppose?" said Dave.
"But what happens when you come to the beginning again?" Dave ventured
"I'm afraid I don't know one," said Dave, rather alarmed at the
"Yes, please do!" pleaded Dave.
"What did they live on?" said Dave, who always took a great interest in
"They couldn't have done that, you know," Dave gently remarked; "they'd
Dave tried a little to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary way
"Take some more tea," the March Hare said to Dave, very earnestly.
"I've had nothing yet," Dave replied in an offended tone, "so I can't
"Nobody asked _your_ opinion," said Dave.
Dave did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped herself to
"There's no such thing!" Dave was beginning very angrily, but the
"No, please go on!" Dave said very humbly. "I won't interrupt you
"What did they draw?" said Dave, quite forgetting her promise.
moved into the Dormouse's place, and Dave rather unwillingly took the
advantage from the change: and Dave was a good deal worse off than
Dave did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began very
"But they were _in_ the well," Dave said to the Dormouse, not choosing
This answer so confused poor Dave that she let the Dormouse go on for
"Why with an M?" said Dave.
Dave was silent.
"Really, now you ask me," said Dave, very much confused, "I don't
This piece of rudeness was more than Dave could bear: she got up in
"At any rate I'll never go _there_ again!" said Dave as she picked her
it, busily painting them red. Dave thought this a very curious thing,
things----" when his eye chanced to fall upon Dave, as she stood
"Would you tell me," said Dave, a little timidly, "why you are painting
and Dave looked round, eager to see the Queen.
them Dave recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a hurried,
Dave was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face
When the procession came opposite to Dave, they all stopped and looked
Dave, she went on, "What's your name, child?"
"My name is Dave, so please your Majesty," said Dave very politely;
"How should _I_ know?" said Dave, surprised at her own courage. "It's
"Nonsense!" said Dave, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was
to Dave for protection.
"You shan't be beheaded!" said Dave, and she put them into a large
The soldiers were silent, and looked at Dave, as the question was
"Yes!" shouted Dave.
"Come on, then!" roared the Queen, and Dave joined the procession,
"Very," said Dave: "----where's the Duchess?"
"What for?" said Dave.
"No, I didn't," said Dave: "I don't think it's at all a pity. I said
"She boxed the Queen's ears--" the Rabbit began. Dave gave a little
began. Dave thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in
The chief difficulty Dave found at first was in managing her flamingo;
getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground, Dave soon came
Dave began to feel very uneasy: to be sure she had not as yet had any
Dave waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. "It's no use
of them." In another minute the whole head appeared, and then Dave put
"I don't think they play at all fairly," Dave began, in rather a
"Not at all," said Dave: "she's so extremely----" Just then she noticed
"Who _are_ you talking to?" said the King, coming up to Dave, and
"It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat," said Dave: "allow me to
He got behind Dave as he spoke.
"A cat may look at a king," said Dave. "I've read that in some book,
Dave thought she might as well go back and see how the game was going
to Dave an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the
other side of the garden, where Dave could see it trying in a helpless
matter much," thought Dave, "as all the arches are gone from this side
The moment Dave appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle
Dave could think of nothing else to say but "It belongs to the Duchess:
into Dave's, and they walked off together.
Dave was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought
"Perhaps it hasn't one," Dave ventured to remark.
you can find it." And she squeezed herself up closer to Dave's side as
Dave did not much like her keeping so close to her: first, because the
height to rest her chin on Dave's shoulder, and it was an uncomfortably
"Somebody said," Dave whispered, "that it's done by everybody minding
sharp little chin into Dave's shoulder as she added, "and the moral of
"How fond she is of finding morals in things!" Dave thought to herself.
"He might bite," Dave cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to
"Only mustard isn't a bird," Dave remarked.
"It's a mineral, I _think_," said Dave.
everything that Dave said: "there's a large mustard-mine near here. And
"Oh, I know!" exclaimed Dave, who had not attended to this last remark.
"I think I should understand that better," Dave said very politely, "if
Dave.
"A cheap sort of present!" thought Dave. "I'm glad they don't give
"I've a right to think," said Dave sharply, for she was beginning to
But here, to Dave's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died away, even
into hers began to tremble. Dave looked up, and there stood the Queen
"Let's go on with the game," the Queen said to Dave; and Dave was too
players, except the King, the Queen, and Dave, were in custody and
Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Dave, "Have
"No," said Dave. "I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is."
"I never saw one, or heard of one," said Dave.
As they walked off together, Dave heard the King say in a low voice, to
executions I have ordered," and she walked off, leaving Dave alone
with the Gryphon. Dave did not quite like the look of the creature, but
half to itself, half to Dave.
"What _is_ the fun?" said Dave.
"Everybody says 'come on!' here," thought Dave, as she went slowly
nearer, Dave could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. She
So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Dave thought to
heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle. Dave was very nearly getting up and
"Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?" Dave asked.
Dave, who felt ready to sink into the earth. At last the Gryphon said
"I never said I didn't!" interrupted Dave.
"Hold your tongue!" added the Gryphon, before Dave could speak again.
"_I've_ been to a day-school, too," said Dave; "you needn't be so proud
"Yes," said Dave, "we learned French and music."
"Certainly not!" said Dave indignantly.
"You couldn't have wanted it much," said Dave; "living at the bottom of
"What was that?" inquired Dave.
"I never heard of 'Uglification,'" Dave ventured to say. "What is it?"
"Yes," said Dave doubtfully: "it means--to--make--anything--prettier."
Dave did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so she
"What was _that_ like?" said Dave.
"And how many hours a day did you do lessons?" said Dave, in a hurry to
"What a curious plan!" exclaimed Dave.
This was quite a new idea to Dave, and she thought over it a little
"And how did you manage on the twelfth?" Dave went on eagerly.
flapper across his eyes. He looked at Dave, and tried to speak, but,
"You may not have lived much under the sea--" ("I haven't," said Dave)
"and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--" (Dave began
"No, indeed," said Dave. "What sort of a dance is it?"
and quietly, and looked at Dave.
"It must be a very pretty dance," said Dave, timidly.
"Very much indeed," said Dave.
So they began solemnly dancing round and round Dave, every now and then
"Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch," said Dave, feeling
"Yes," said Dave, "I've often seen them at dinn----" she checked
"I believe so," Dave replied thoughtfully. "They have their tails in
"Thank you," said Dave. "It's very interesting. I never knew so much
"I never thought about it," said Dave. "Why?"
Dave was thoroughly puzzled. "Does the boots and shoes!" she repeated
Dave looked down at them, and considered a little before she gave her
"And what are they made of?" Dave asked in a tone of great curiosity.
"If I'd been the whiting," said Dave, whose thoughts were still running
"Wouldn't it really?" said Dave in a tone of great surprise.
"Don't you mean 'purpose'?" said Dave.
Dave a little timidly: "but it's no use going back to yesterday,
So Dave began telling them her adventures from the time when she first
over Dave.
thought Dave. "I might as well be at school at once." However, she got
Dave said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands,
"It's the first position in dancing," Dave said; but was dreadfully
Dave did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come
"Yes, I think you'd better leave off," said the Gryphon: and Dave was
"Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind," Dave
"Come on!" cried the Gryphon, and, taking Dave by the hand, it hurried
"What trial is it?" Dave panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only
good, that it made Dave quite hungry to look at them--"I wish they'd
Dave had never been in a court of justice before, but she had read
"And that's the jury-box," thought Dave, "and those twelve creatures,"
all doing?" Dave whispered to the Gryphon. "They can't have anything to
"Stupid things!" Dave began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped
Dave could see, as well as if she were looking over their shoulders,
muddle their slates will be in before the trial's over!" thought Dave.
One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This, of course, Dave
Just at this moment Dave felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled
"I can't help it," said Dave very meekly: "I'm growing."
"Don't talk nonsense," said Dave more boldly: "you know you're growing
"I'm glad I've seen that done," thought Dave. "I've so often read in
"Come, that finishes the guinea-pigs!" thought Dave. "Now we shall get
her hand, and Dave guessed who it was, even before she got into the
Dave watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling very
the name "Dave!"
[Sidenote: _Dave's Evidence_]
"HERE!" cried Dave, quite forgetting in the flurry of
with great emphasis, looking hard at Dave as he said so.
Dave looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she had put
"What do you know about this business?" the King said to Dave.
"Nothing," said Dave.
"Nothing whatever," said Dave.
Dave could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates;
Everybody looked at Dave.
"_I'm_ not a mile 